How do you pass arguments to shell scripts?
--> Arguments passed to script can be accessed using $1 , $2 ..$n for the first, second ...nth

#!/bin/bash
echo "First argument: $1"
echo "Second argument: $2"

./script.sh shrirang patil
First argument: shrirang
Second argument: patil

************
How do you check if a file exists in a shell script?
--> use an if statement  with -e option to check for the existence of file..

#!/bin/bash
if [ -e /var/www/html/index.html ]; then
  echo "file exists"
else 
  echo "file does not exist"
fi

****************
Q3) How do you write a loop that iterates over a list of items?
use for loop to iterate over a list of items.

#!/bin/bash
for file in app.log db.log nginx.log; do 
  cat$file >>combined.log
done

Below script helps us to loops over 3 log files app.log db.log nginx.log. append the content of each to single file called combined.log

****************
Q4) How can you redirect both stdout and stderr to a file?
--> Use &> to redirect both stdout and stderr to a file.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
q5) How do you read user input in a shell script?
--> Use the read command to capture User Input.

#!/bin/bash
echo "Enter your name:"
read name
echo "Hello, $name"

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Q6) How do you check exit status of a command in script?

--> Checking if a service restarted correctly.
    systemctl restart nginx

if [ $? ]; then
 echo "failed to restart nginx" | mail -s "Error Alert" admin@example.com

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Q7) How do you create a fucntion in a shell script?
 














